# November 7, 2024 Log Record

The captain's logbook date is November 7, 2024 06:03.

There is a lot of work to do to start training the model. First, I am installing Visual Studio Code and Python. After completing the development environment, I will list the work to be done step by step and start working.

I am thinking of writing down what I do every day in a journal. In this way, I will have documented what I do and think it will be a useful resource in the future.

## Installation

Need to install Python3 with Pip.

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo apt install python3 python3-pip
```

Creating an isolated virtual environment for ever project the `virtualenv` must be installed.

```bash
pip3 install virtualenv
```

Then need to install VSCode.

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install software-properties-common apt-transport-https wget
wget -q https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc -O- | sudo apt-key add -
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/vscode stable main"
sudo apt update && sudo apt install code
```

After installing VSCode, the [Python extension](vscode:extension/ms-python.python) should be installed on VSCode from the extensions tab. This extension adds to the VS Code the code execution and debugging capabilities for Python.

## Preparing the Coding Environment

After cloning the repository, I start to complete the steps for development.

Creating a virtual environment, executing the below code in the root directory of the project.

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
```

Then activate the virtual environment.

```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

Installing the required libraries with `pip`.

```bash
pip install transformers datasets tokenizers
```

By creating `settings.json` under the `.vscode` folder, the Python interpreter will be selected automatically.


```json
{
    "python.defaultInterpreterPath": "${workspaceFolder}/venv/bin/python3",
    "python.terminal.activateEnvironment": true
}
```

As a last step one of the deep learning library must be installed.

### PyTorch

For CPU usage.

```bash
pip install torch
```

For CUDA Core GPU Usage.

```bash
pip install torch torchvision torchaudio
```

### TensorFlow

For using Tensorflow.

```bash
pip install tensorflow
```

### Related Packages

Some related packages would be appeard, while executing the code. The Accelerate library is one of those.

```bash
pip install transformers[torch]
```

## Coding

In the end, I could reach the exit of the tunnel to code. I copied and pasted the code blocks given by ChatGPT.

I tried to execute successfully the Romeo & Juliet book with BERT and GPT model, for validating the environment.

## Today's Result

The Bert model was tried and something happened that I don't understand yet. The training results were like that;

```json
{'loss': 6.78, 'grad_norm': 4.1616387367248535, 'learning_rate': 2.6851851851851855e-05, 'epoch': 1.39}                                                                                      
{'loss': 6.1401, 'grad_norm': 5.1100029945373535, 'learning_rate': 3.7037037037037037e-06, 'epoch': 2.78}                                                                                    
{'train_runtime': 765.0489, 'train_samples_per_second': 1.129, 'train_steps_per_second': 0.282, 'train_loss': 6.435161413969817, 'epoch': 3.0} 
```

I asked the result metrics to ChatGPT but, I need to understand the metrics meanings, limits, and so on.

Today I am out now.